Day 12 - Christmas Tree Farm

Well, that's the end of this year's AoC. This was stupidly simple. We have a bunch of `3x3` [polyominoes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyomino) that we want to fit into a rectangular box. Specifically, my input had 6 polyominoes (presents) with certain areas and each box had a specified number of presents of each type.

The obvious filtration to do is to check if the boxes are large enough. That is, if my presents had ares `3,4,5` and box 1 had area `40` and needed `10,20,10` of these presents, then it's impossible because `3*10+4*20+5*10 = 160>40`. But if my box had area `200` then I _might_ be able to fit in those presents. This pruning drastically reduced the number of boxes and guess what, that was my answer! Not too surprising because Eric Wastl has previously made the last day of AoC really simple (and there isn't even a part two). Moreover, the general problem is really hard and I can only think of trying to place presents until failure, then backtracking (this would take forever to run given the size of the inputs). The input is designed in such a way that say `box1` has sufficiently large area, then I computed that it has so much excess area that you can arrange the presents without having any overlapping `3x3` regions and still have empty spaces. I didn't bother to parse the entire input because my first filtering gave out the answer. Pretty short and simple.

---

All in all, this was a very enjoyable 12 days of puzzles! I found most of them to be quite simple. [Day 6](https://github.com/shrivathsap/advent_of_code/tree/main/2025/day06) with parsing the math homework problems was really fun and I liked it. Implementing Kruskal's algorithm on [Day 8](https://github.com/shrivathsap/advent_of_code/tree/main/2025/day08) was also enjoyable. [Day 9](https://github.com/shrivathsap/advent_of_code/tree/main/2025/day09) might still be the hardest one of this year's AoC. It involved two checks one of which was fast and reduced the search space for the second, and I learnt how to implement ray casting.

[Day 10](https://github.com/shrivathsap/advent_of_code/tree/main/2025/day10) was also hard and is the only one where I don't have a Haskell solution. But I learnt a lot from this one and implemented my own "integer programming solver" more or less. It shouldn't be too hard to translate my Python code into Haskell, but it was messy enough to deal with floating point arithmetic in Python and I don't want to add on the type conversions in Haskell. For Day 10, I also implemented a solution for the change-making problem and that was very useful for [Day 11](https://github.com/shrivathsap/advent_of_code/tree/main/2025/day11) which I also found hard. Out of the 12 days, the really challenging ones were 9, 10, 11 but those are the ones that I learnt the most from. Although it was short, it was, as always, a lot of fun to solve these problems.